(DOCSP-19891): Create Query-Based Sync content in Realm Sync -> Define Data Access Patterns (#1515)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sync/data-access-patterns/query-based-sync.txt

.. _query-based-sync:

================
Query-Based Sync
================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

{+service+} Query-Based Sync lets you define a query in the client, and 
sync only the objects that match the query. With client-side subscriptions, 
client applications can:

- Maintain queries
- React to changes
- Add, change, or delete queries

> With :ref:`rules and permissions <sync-rules>`, this provides a powerful 

Reviewer: what is "this" in the sentence "provides a powerful and flexible way to configure ..."?

Currently it ambiguously means one of the following:
* rules and permissions (in general) 
* client-side subscriptions 
* query-base sync

Can you clarify + update the sentence?

and flexible way to configure sync around your business logic.

When a client makes a query, {+service-short+} searches the server-side 
data set for documents matching the query. Then, the sync engine applies 
a set of rules to determine which documents in the query the user should 
be able to access. {+service-short+} returns only the matching documents 
where the user has read or read/write access, and assigns the user
the appropriate permissions.

Client applications can add, update, or remove queries dynamically at 

> run-time from the device.

Reviewer: Should you add a warning or an additional sentence that states that removing queries in this way will trigger a client reset?

Author: That's a good question, @mongomoe  - I've waffled a bit with whether to include warnings like that here, or whether they belong in the configuration documentation. Since this is intended to be high-level concept information, I didn't include that in my initial draft here. But if you think it's an important omission that we should cover in both places, I can add it. What do you think?

Reviewer: Good point, let's leave it as is, it does makes more sense to leave the mention to client reset out of this sentence since this content is more conceptual.

👍

.. include:: /includes/note-qbs-beta.rst

.. _queryable-fields:

Queryable Fields
----------------

> When you configure Query-Based Sync, you specify which fields your client 

Reviewer: [](url)
```suggestion
When you configure Query-Based Sync, you specify a set of fields your client 
```
the above suggestion might make it more clear that you can include multiple fields

Reviewer: Nice rewording! 👍

application can query. 

.. example::

   In a task tracker app, you might set ``assignee`` or ``owner`` 
   as queryable fields. On the client side, you can then query for tasks 
   whose ``assignee`` or ``owner`` matches the logged-in user. 

Queryable fields apply across all collections in a {+app+}'s Sync Schema.
You can use :ref:`rules and permissions 
<query-based-sync-rules-and-permissions>` to configure more granular access 
control on individual collections.

.. _qbs-eligible-field-types:

Eligible Field Types
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Any top-level primitive field with a scalar type can be a queryable field. 
Query-Based Sync does not currently support embedded objects or arrays as 
queryable fields.

> Performance and Storage

Reviewer: This section is awesome haha might steal a lot of the wording from this section for the "Optimize Sync Atlas Usage"

Author: That's a fair point - do you think we should remove this content from here and repurpose it for the "Optimize Sync Atlas Usage" page, and/or configuration details? I did wonder if this was too configuration-specific to belong in concept content, or if it's helpful to get people thinking about these details while they're learning more about QBS.

Reviewer: I think it's fine for two places to have the same info, we can swap it to a literal include if we need

Reviewer: Although I do think the Optimize Sync Atlas Usage has the opportunity to go into more depth + provide additional details, whereas this provides a great high-level passage.

Author: That's fair! Alright, I'll leave this section here. 👍

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Queryable fields use storage on the backing Atlas cluster. The more 
queryable fields you configure, the more storage you use on the backing 
cluster.

You can configure up to 10 queryable fields per application for Query-Based 
Sync. If you have a large number of collections in an {+app+}, you may need to
use the same queryable field across multiple collections. Combine this with 
:ref:`rules and permissions <query-based-sync-rules-and-permissions>` for 
more granular control over who can access which collections.

.. example::

   Your {+app+} may contain 20 or 30 collections, but you can only configure
   10 queryable fields. You must re-use queryable fields across collections 
   in order to sync objects from every collection.

> For best performance, use a broad Sync query, and slice off subqueries

Reviewer: Question: If you use a broad query how would you slice off subqueries? Did you mean, use a specific query and then slice off subqueries in order to make it a broader query to optimize for storage space? Or did I misunderstand?

Reviewer: I think my confusion may be around the term "working set". Can you define that for me in this thread? I see that in a couple spots of this documentation, but haven't seen it elsewhere in our docs. Guessing you don't mean: [Wikipedia:working set](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Working_set#:~:text=Working%20set%20is%20a%20concept,in%20a%20given%20time%20interval.)?

Author: I don't actually know, @mongomoe - I had some questions about this terminology, too. I took it from a conversation in the outline document, and had previously asked for more clarification there, but hadn't gotten a response yet: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YR_KRkpXUwmgBbhj4G6_8aMMgAN7ujWmotezXMX3biE/edit?disco=AAAASXEP8I4

I'll bump the comment again and see if I can get some more information.

Author: Alright, I got a little more clarification and have revised this paragraph to reflect the additional info. Let me know if this is clear enough, @mongomoe , or if I should rework it further.

Reviewer 2: LGTM.
